docs: DOC-1362 (#3929)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/user-management/authentication/api-key/delete-api-key.md

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## API

> You can use the Palette API to delete an API key programmatically. Use the
> `https://api.spectrocloud.com/v1/apiKeys/:uid`[endpoint](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/api/v1/v-1-api-keys-uid-delete)
> to delete an API key.
> 
> To delete an API key, you first must have the API key's unique identifier. Use the following steps to learn how to
> delete an API key programmatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Palette API with the `https://api.spectrocloud.com/v1/apiKeys/:uid` [endpoint](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/api/v1/v-1-api-keys-uid-delete) and the API key's unique identifier to delete an API key programmatically. 

Use the following steps to learn how to delete an API key.
```
maybe? :) to avoid repetition

### Prerequisites

- You must have a valid Palette API key. Refer to the [Create API Key](create-api-key.md) section for more information.

- A terminal or command prompt to execute the `curl` command. Alternatively, you can use a REST client like
  [Postman](https://www.postman.com/).

> ### Delete API Key With API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Delete API Key with API
```

             "scope": "tenant",
             "scopeVisibility": "20",
             "tenantUid": "*************************"
           },
           "creationTimestamp": "2024-09-16T14:46:28.677Z",
           "deletionTimestamp": "0001-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
           "lastModifiedTimestamp": "2024-09-16T14:46:29.079Z",
           "name": "remove-me-test",
           "uid": "66e844c44bab2337f20c7471"
         },
         "spec": {
           "expiry": "2024-09-23T14:46:28.164Z",
           "user": {
             "firstName": "example",
             "lastName": "example",
             "uid": "*****************"
           }
         },
         "status": {
           "isActive": true
         }
       }
     ]
   }
   ```

3. Once you have the API key's unique identifier, issue the following command to delete the API key. Replace `uid` with
   the API key's unique identifier. Specify a valid API key in the `ApiKey` header.

   ```shell
   curl -L -X DELETE 'https://api.spectrocloud.com/v1/apiKeys/:uid' \
   -H 'ApiKey: <API_KEY_VALUE>'
   ```

4. No output is expected if the API key is successfully deleted.

### Validate

> 1. Verify the API key is no longer available in the Palette by issuing the following command. Replace `API_KEY_VALUE`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify the API key is no longer available in Palette by issuing the following command. Replace `API_KEY_VALUE`
```

   identifier and reissue the delete command. You can also validate the deletion by checking the Palette UI.

## SDK

You can use the [Palette SDK](../../../automation/palette-sdk/palette-sdk.md) to delete an API key programmatically.

### Prerequisites

- You must have a valid Palette API key. Refer to the [Create API Key](create-api-key.md) section for more information.

- [Go version](https://go.dev/doc/install) 1.22 or later.

- A text editor or an IDE to write and execute the Go code.

- A valid Palette API key to delete. In this example, the fictional API key named `delete-test-key` is used.

- An internet connection to download the Palette SDK and its dependencies.

### Delete API Key With Go SDK

1. Create a new directory for your Go project and navigate to the directory.

   ```shell
   mkdir delete-api-key && cd delete-api-key
   ```

2. Create a new Go file, for example, **main.go**.

   ```shell
   touch main.go
   ```

3. Initialize the Go module. Use the following command to initialize the Go module.

   ```shell
   go mod init example/delete-api-key
   ```

4. Open the **main.go** file in your text editor or IDE.

> 5. Copy and paste the following code snippet into the **main.go** file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Copy and paste the following code snippet into the **main.go** file. Replace `delete-test-key` with the name of the key you want to delete.
```
maybe? :)

   ```go
    package main

    import (
      "fmt"
      "log"
      "log/slog"
      "os"

      "github.com/spectrocloud/palette-sdk-go/client"
    )

    func main() {

      host := os.Getenv("PALETTE_HOST") // "api.spectrocloud.com"

>       apiKey := os.Getenv("PALETTE_API_KEY") // "your api key"

Reviewer 2: Should we exit the program if host and apiKey are not set?

Author: Yeah, we should.

>       keyName := "delete-test-key" // "name of the key to delete. Replace as needed"

Reviewer 2: Why is this not an environment variable like host and apiKey?

      pc := client.New(
        client.WithPaletteURI(host),
        client.WithAPIKey(apiKey),
      )

      keys, err := pc.GetAPIKeys()
      if err != nil {
        log.Fatal("Error getting API keys: ", err)
      }

      for _, key := range keys.Items {
        if key.Metadata.Name == keyName {
          slog.Info(fmt.Sprintf("API key found. Deleting API key: %s", key.Metadata.Name))
          err := pc.DeleteAPIKey(key.Metadata.UID)
          if err != nil {
            log.Fatal("Error deleting API key: ", err)
          }
          slog.Info("API key deleted successfully")
        }

      }
    }
   ```

6. Set the environment variables for the Palette host and API key. Replace `api.spectrocloud.com` with your Palette host
   URL if you are using a self-hosted Palette or VerteX instance.

   ```shell
   export PALETTE_HOST="api.spectrocloud.com"
   export PALETTE_API_KEY="your api key"
   ```

> 7. Start the Go program.

Reviewer 2: Users will need to issue a `go get ./...` for the program to run

   ```shell
   go run .
   ```

   ```shell
   2024/09/16 08:27:12 INFO API key found. Deleting API key: delete-test-key
   2024/09/16 08:27:12 INFO API key deleted successfully
   ```

### Validate

You can validate the deletion by checking the Palette UI or by querying the API with the `GetAPIKeys()` method to list
the API keys again and verifying the API key is no longer available.

1. Create a function to list the API keys and verify the API key is no longer available. Use the following code snippet
   to validate the deletion.

   ```go
   // validateKeyIsRemoved checks if the key is removed
   // returns true if the key is removed, false otherwise
   func validateKeyIsRemoved(keyName string, pc *client.V1Client) (bool, error) {

     keys, err := pc.GetAPIKeys()
     if err != nil {
       log.Fatal("Error getting API keys: ", err)
     }

     for _, key := range keys.Items {
       if key.Metadata.Name == keyName {
         return false, nil
       }
     }

     return true, nil

   }
   ```

> 2. Add the function to **main.go** file. Add the code snippet after the initial loop that removes the APII key, line 40.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the function to the **main.go** file. Add the code snippet after the initial loop that removes the API key on line 40.
```

> 2. Add the function to **main.go** file. Add the code snippet after the initial loop that removes the APII key, line 40.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be easier for the user to get the whole go file again.
